add more appium 2 docs (#17692)
appium/appium: packages/appium/docs/en/guides/execute-methods.md

---
title: Execute Methods
---

Because the scope of commands implemented in Appium drivers is broader than the scope of commands

> defined by the W3C WebDriver spec, Appium needs a way for these "extended" commands to be accessed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
defined by the W3C WebDriver spec, Appium needs a way for these "extended" commands to be accessible
```

by client libraries. There are two main strategies for this:

1. Appium drivers define new W3C-compatible API routes, and Appium clients are updated to include
   support for those new routes.

> 2. Appium drivers define so-called "Execute Methods" which provide access to new functionality by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Appium drivers define so-called "Execute Methods" which provide new functionality by
```

>    overloading the existing `Execute Script` command which is already available in any WebDriver-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   overloading the existing "Execute Script" command which is already available in any WebDriver-
```

we should be consistent with the punctuation, whatever it is

Author: so here's my rule for this:
1. `"Execute Method"` or `Execute Method` -- this is a non-official name that we came up with, hence it's not in backticks
2. `Execute Script` -- this is the official name of the W3C command, hence it's in backticks

   based client library (including all Selenium and Appium clients).

> There are pros and cons for each strategy, but it is ultimately up to a driver or plugin author to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are pros and cons for each strategy, but it is ultimately up to the extension author to
```

> decide how they wish to provide access to any new commands. You should always refer to the
> documentation for a specific driver or plugin to see how it expects commands to be called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
decide how they wish implement new commands. 
```

that last sentence seems out-of-place, as this doc looks to be information for extension authors, not end-users

> This guide is designed to help you understand strategy #2 specifically, because it is something you
> will commonly see in all the official Appium drivers as well as other third party extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide is designed to specifically help you understand the "Execute Method" strategy.  This pattern is commonly used in official Appium drivers and other third-party extensions.
```

Here's an example of how the `Execute Script` command is designed to work in the world of WebDriver
and browser automation:

> === "JS (WDIO)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== "JS (WebDriverIO)"
```

    ```js
    await driver.executeScript('return arguments[0] + arguments[1]', [3, 4])
    ```

=== "Java"

    ```java
    JavascriptExecutor jsDriver = (JavascriptExecutor) driver;
    jsDriver.executeScript("return arguments[0] + arguments[1]", 3, 4);
    ```

=== "Python"

    ```py
    driver.execute_script('return arguments[0] + arguments[1]', 3, 4)
    ```

=== "Ruby"

> 
>     ```rb
>     # TODO
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

    ```rb
    driver.execute_script 'return arguments[0] + arguments[1]', 3, 4
    ```
```

=== "C#"

>     ```dotnet
>     /* TODO */
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```dotnet
    ((IJavaScriptExecutor)driver).ExecuteScript("return arguments[0] + arguments[1]", 3, 4);
    ```
```

> Essentially, what's happening here is that we are defining a snippet of Javascript (technically,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What's happening here is that we are defining a snippet of Javascript (technically,
```

> a function body) to be executed within the web browser. This snippet can take arguments from the
> client which are serialized and sent in as parameters. In this example, we are essentially defining

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a function body) to be executed within the web browser. The client can send arguments which are serialized, sent over HTTP, and finally provided to the function as parameters.  In this example, we are essentially defining
```

an addition function. The return value of the `Execute Script` command is whatever the return value
of the Javascript snippet is! In the case of this example, that value would be the number `7` (`3`
+ `4`).

Each client library has its own way of calling the command and providing any arguments to the

> script function, but the script string is always the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
script function, but the function itself—the snippet—is always a string and is the same across all languages.
```

In the world of Appium, we are usually not automating a web browser, which means this command is
not particularly useful. But it *is* useful as a way to encode the name of an arbitrary command and
to provide parameters. For example, the [XCUITest

> Driver](https://github.com/appium/appium-xcuitest-driver) has implemented a command that lets you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Driver](https://github.com/appium/appium-xcuitest-driver) has implemented a command that lets a client
```

consistent point-of-view

terminate a running application if you know the ID (the `bundleId`) of the app. The way that the

> driver makes this command available is via the Execute Method `mobile: terminateApp`. The name of
> this Execute Method tells you exactly what you need to know in order to construct a string snippet
> to call it via the `Execute Script` command. The only other thing you need to know is the set of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
driver makes this command available is via the Execute Method `mobile: terminateApp`. Instead of providing a JavaScript function to the "Execute Script" command, the user provides a _known string_ as defined by the driver. The only other thing a client needs to know is the set of
```

parameters for the method, which are documented by the driver. In this case, we have a parameter
named `bundleId`, whose value should be a string encoding the ID of the app to terminate. Here is
how this Execute Method would be called:

> === "JS (WDIO)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== "JS (WebDriverIO)"
```

    ```js
    await driver.executeScript('mobile: terminateApp', [{bundleId: 'com.my.app'}])
    ```

=== "Java"

    ```java
    JavascriptExecutor jsDriver = (JavascriptExecutor) driver;
    jsDriver.executeScript("mobile: terminateApp", ImmutableMap.of("bundleId", "com.my.app"));
    ```

=== "Python"

    ```py
    driver.execute_script('mobile: terminateApp', {'bundleId': 'com.my.app'})
    ```

=== "Ruby"

>     ```rb
>     # TODO
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```rb
    driver.execute_script 'mobile: terminateApp', { bundleId: 'com.my.app' }
    ```
```

=== "C#"

>     ```dotnet
>     /* TODO */
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```dotnet
    ((IJavaScriptExecutor)driver).ExecuteScript("mobile: terminateApp",
        new Dictionary<string, string> { { "bundleId", "com.my.app" } });

    ```
```

There are two important differences in using Appium Execute Methods from vanilla Selenium
Javascript execution:

1. The script string is just a command name; it will be provided by the driver documentation
1. The standard way to provide parameters is as a *single* object with keys representing parameter
   names and values representing parameter values. So in this case, we had to specify both the
   parameter name (`bundleId`) as the key of the parameters object, and the parameter value

>    (`com.my.app`) as the value for that key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   (`com.my.app`) as the value for that key. A driver can define parameters as _required_ or _optional_.
```
